lightning: add 2 docs for logical import mode (#10220)
pingcap/docs: tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-logical-import-mode-usage.md

---
title: Use Logical Import Mode
summary: Learn how to use logical import mode in TiDB Lightning.
---

# Use Logical Import Mode

> This document introduces how to use the logical import mode in TiDB Lightning, including writing the configuration file and tuning performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document introduces how to use the [logical import mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-logical-import-mode.md) in TiDB Lightning, including writing the configuration file and tuning performance.
```

## Configure and use the logical import mode

> You can use the following configuration file to execute data import using logical import mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the logical import mode via the following configuration file to import data:
```

```toml
[lightning]
# log
level = "info"
file = "tidb-lightning.log"
max-size = 128 # MB
max-days = 28
max-backups = 14

# Checks the cluster minimum requirements before start.
check-requirements = true

[mydumper]
# The local data source directory or the external storage URL.
data-source-dir = "/data/my_database"

[tikv-importer]
# Import mode. "tidb" means using the logical import mode.
backend = "tidb"

# The operation of inserting duplicate data in logical import mode.
# - replace: replace existing data with new data
# - ignore: keep existing data and ignore new data
# - error: pause the import and report an error
on-duplicate = "replace"

[tidb]
# The information of the target cluster. The address of any tidb-server from the cluster.
host = "172.16.31.1"
port = 4000
user = "root"
# Configure the password to connect to TiDB. Either plaintext or Base64 encoded.
password = ""
# tidb-lightning imports the TiDB library, and generates some logs.
# Set the log level of the TiDB library.
log-level = "error"
```

For the complete configuration file, refer to [TiDB Lightning Configuration](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md).

## Conflict detection

> Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same data in the PK or UK column. When the data source contains conflicting data, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using unique index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conflicting data refers to two or more records with the same data in the PK or UK column. When the data source contains conflicting data, the actual number of rows in the table is different from the total number of rows returned by the query using the unique index.
```

> In logical import mode, you can configure the strategy for resolving conflicting data by setting the `on-duplicate` configuration item. Based on the strategy, TiDB Lightning imports data with different SQL statements.

Reviewer: How about keep the use of the article "the" before "logical import mode" consistent in all related content?

Author: Sounds good. I'll add "the" before "logical/physical import mode".

Author: Fixed in [91e1ee6](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10220/commits/91e1ee6e443deb22344a7a93256b18a91abddb9b)

| Strategy | Default behavior of conflicting data | The corresponding SQL statement |
| :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `replace` | Replace existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
> | `ignore` | Keep existing data and ignore new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
> | `error` | Pause the import and report an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |

Reviewer: To avoid making users feel like these are user actions.
```suggestion
| `replace` | Replacing existing data with new data. | `REPLACE INTO ...` |
| `ignore` | Keeping existing data and ignoring new data. | `INSERT IGNORE INTO ...` |
| `error` | Pausing the import and reporting an error. | `INSERT INTO ...` |
```
